



[CLICK] SOA FUNDING STRATEGIES and SOA ENTRY POINTS
Process projects which have low business sponsorship and low SOA complexity might be funded out of the business solutions budget or might get some redirected money for the SOA-specific work.
IT-led SOA projects that have low business sponsorship but high SOA complexity will likely be funded by redirected money.
Business-led SOA projects which have high business sponsorship with low SOA complexity will most likely be funded by business solution budget.
Mega projects that have both high business sponsorship and high SOA complexity will almost certainly be funded by budget specifically assigned to the SOA project.




A key focus of Oracle’s SOA methodology is to make sure that enterprises still deliver value while developing and deploying their SOA solutions. This requires that enterprises approach SOA by planning strategically while acting tactically.
[CLICK] PLAN STRATEGICALLY
Enterprises need to plan strategically across many disciplines including organization and governance, reference architecture, service engineering, service modeling and SOA Management and Monitoring.
It is important to understand that the strategy and planning phase and implementation roadmap is not a one-off exercise but should be seen as an on-going process.
As enterprises execute the activities in the short term aspects of the roadmap then more detail can be added to both the medium and long term aspects of the roadmap.
[CLICK] ACT TACTICALLY
So acting tactically allows a pragmatic approach to delivering value from your SOA solutions while at the same time addressing the immediate concerns within each iteration.
[CLICK] FOUR STEP PROCESS
Essentially this is a simple 4 step process, which determines the current state, creates the future vision, identifies the gaps between the two, and defines a roadmap to get from the current state to the desired future state.
The transition from the current state to the future state should be broken down into a number of phases. Whereby each phase takes into consideration the requirements and needs and selects and appropriate duration.
To plan and develop this roadmap, Oracle leverages a comprehensive SOA Maturity model.